## Matrix Capsules with EM Routing - Understanding

This documents my understanding of the recent __matrix capsules__ framework proposed in [Matrix Capsules with EM Routing](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=HJWLfGWRb).

This document assumes you already familiar with the convolution neural network framework, e.g., how conv2d, conv3d works, what are vgg, inception, resnet, and etc.

It would be beneficial to understand of the __vector capsules__ structure, described in [Dynamic Routing Between Capsules](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.09829), although not necessary.   

### Overview

I would value the matrix capsules with EM routing contributes to the current deep learning framework with the following 3 aspects:

1. The __matrix capsules__ use a pose matrix (4x4) and activation (scalar), instead of one scalar number, as the basic unit to describe the activities of hidden features or output.

    Furthermore, compared to the vector capsules, the matrix capsules use a matrix of $$n$$ elements, rather than a vector of length $$n$$, so its viewpoint transformation matrix requires just $$n$$ parameter, rather than $$n^2$$ in the vector capsules.

2. This work introduces a convolution operation between the capsule layers, e.g., between the adjacent layers of (poses, activations), so that it is possible to build __deep__ networks.

    The previous vector capsules paper introduces only fully-connected operations between capsule layers.

3. This work proposes an EM routing algorithm to route weights between inputs capsules and output capsules.
 
    This EM routing algorithm is more physically and statistically solid than the routing by agreement (agreement on cosine angle) introduced in the vector capsules.   

Let's take a look on the framework itself.

